Add GitHub App Token Plugin Doc and Cross-Link from Existing PAT Article (#10910)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-integration/secure-ci/github-app-token-in-harness.md

---
title: Using GitHub App Tokens Securely in Harness CI Pipelines
description: Learn how to securely authenticate GitHub API calls in Harness CI pipelines using GitHub App tokens and the community plugin for ephemeral token generation.
sidebar_position: 20
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

When interacting with GitHub from CI pipelines, authentication is required for actions like creating pull requests, committing code, or accessing private repositories. Traditionally, this was done using static personal access tokens (PATs), but this approach comes with significant drawbacks:

* **Rate limits** for user tokens are low.
* **Security risks** from hardcoded secrets or token exposure.
* **User binding** ties activity to a specific person rather than a system identity.

This guide walks through a modern, flexible solution that uses a GitHub App to generate short-lived tokens at runtime, powered by a [Harness-compatible plugin](https://github.com/harness-community/drone-github-app-token).

> ---

Author: Valid comment. Resolved via https://github.com/harness/developer-hub/pull/10910/commits/752eb25edd8ef2d018f820c589547bbf6ab6d275

## Limitations of Static Tokens and Legacy Approaches

Earlier approaches involved scripting token generation by manually crafting JWTs, calling GitHub APIs, and injecting tokens into Harness pipelines via a custom secret manager. While functional, this method:

* Was **cumbersome and error-prone**.
* Required external scripts and secret manager setup.
* **Did not work reliably in Harness Cloud**, often failing silently or returning incorrect data.

For details on the previous approach, see [this KB article](/kb/continuous-integration/articles/github-app-pat-dispenser/).

> ---

Reviewer: do we need to mention this old approach? (also looks like it didn't work based on the recent slack conversation [ref](https://harness.slack.com/archives/C013KJMDV0U/p1749661540959049))

This plugin generates GitHub App installation tokens securely during pipeline execution. It eliminates the need for PATs or static secrets and enables you to use the token immediately in subsequent steps.

### Key Benefits

* Tokens are **ephemeral**, scoped to the pipeline.
* Securely injected as output variables.
* Works in **Harness Cloud environments** without special configuration.

---

## Example: Using GitHub App Token in a CI Pipeline

```yaml
- step:
    identifier: Generate_GitHub_Token
    type: Plugin
    name: Generate GitHub App Token
    spec:
      connectorRef: YOUR_DOCKER_CONNECTOR
      image: plugins/github-app-token:latest
      settings:
        app_id: "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_ID"
        private_key: <+secrets.getValue("YOUR_GITHUB_APP_KEY")>  # Secret of type "File"
        permission_contents: write

- step:
    identifier: Use_Token
    type: Run
    name: Use GitHub Token
    spec:
      shell: Sh
      command: |
        curl -H "Authorization: token <+execution.steps.Generate_GitHub_Token.output.outputVariables.GITHUB_APP_TOKEN>" \
             https://api.github.com/repos/YOUR_ORG/YOUR_REPO/contents
```

> ### Notes:

Reviewer: we also mention all three output vars ([link](https://github.com/harness-community/drone-github-app-token/blob/main/README.md#output)) from the plugin

* `app_id`: GitHub App ID (numeric).
* `private_key`: Must be stored in Harness as a **File-type Secret**.
* `connectorRef`: Docker connector that can pull the plugin image.

> * The token can also be passed as an environment variable (`GH_TOKEN`) if you're using the GitHub CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The token can also be passed as an environment variable (`GH_TOKEN`) if you want to use GitHub CLI like below:
```bash
export GH_TOKEN=<+execution.steps.Generate_GitHub_Token.output.outputVariables.GITHUB_APP_TOKEN>"
```
```
